Tanner Helms
Professor Rebecca Sibrian
UF-100-002
22 February 2020
Ford vs Ferrari Film Analysis
“The only question that matters: Who are you?” Kin Miles said in the film Ford vs Ferrari as he just about hit rock bottom while trying to perfect a race car that would take on the world-famous Ferrari company. Many of us face several hard challenges as we strive to achieve our goals. The film, Ford vs Ferrari addresses several challenges that everyone faces trying to accomplish things that seem impossible. Camera angles, characters and camera angles are used to express these challenges.
	Ford vs Ferrari directed by James Mangold’s, came out on August 30, 2019. This film tells the story of the American manufacturing company Ford took on the Italy Ferrari company in the reigning champion of Le Mans. At this time, Ford was a smaller company that wasn’t very well known. They didn’t have very good race cars and hadn’t won anything. One day in the 60s the corporation decided that is was time to step it up and make a difference. The CEO told everyone to go home during the middle of the day and told them to come back with an idea of a race car or else they would lose their job. They wanted a chance in the 24-hour circuit and knew they needed to also hirer some racing legends. Employees of the company came back with lots of ideas. They found two racing legends, Carroll Shelby and Ken Miles to help them take the European title. Together, they slowly put a car together that would have a shot at winning the title. This was all filmed on Willow Springs Raceway in Rosamond, California.
	Throughout the film, there is a lot of hard things that Ford must overcome to achieve its goal. At the beginning, Ford had no idea of what to build and how to build an effective racecar.  After telling the employees that they have to come back with ideas and hiring the professional drivers, they began piecing together a car that later on would be very effective. Once they got something together, they would bring the car to the track to test it out. The employees would line up on the side of the track and take notes of what to improve while the professional drivers were testing out the cars. This process would be repeated until the car would be perfected. During the process, the brakes went out, the engine caught on fire due to overheating, and so many other problems. This reminds me of the book becoming a learner, where Matthew Sanders talks about how that we need to step above and try to learn everything we can instead of the bare minimum. Talking about college he says, “create for yourself an excellent education”. Just like in Ford vs Ferrari, Ford had to make themselves an excellent company with excellent cars. There was no one else there to help them and get it done for them, they had to do it themselves. In college, if you want an excellent education you need to push yourself and ask question to learn the most you can. If you only push for the bare minimum than your going to get the bare minimum. The reward at the end will always be worth it. Eventually after many of fails, Ford finally took the title of the European circuit. Sometimes school may be very hard, and you don’t want to go anymore or don’t want to get your work done, but the reward will always reflect what you put into it. If you go above and beyond then the reward will show it.
	The camera angles throughout the film change and so does the music. At the beginning of the film, the camera angles tend to be farther away especially while they are on the track and testing the cars. Then they slowly get closer and closer to the cars as they become closer and closer to perfection. This shows how at the beginning, they were so far away from their goal to the point where it may not even had seemed possible. But by their hard work, they slowly become closer and closer to accomplishing their goal. The music has also followed this pattern as the music was not very happy and cheerful at the beginning of the movie. But as they began perfecting this car, it became more cheerful and seemed to have more hope. This kind of reminded me of the TV show we watched called switched at birth. The only sound that was in the TV show was a little bit of music and that was it. Since this was the only sound, it kind of made me think that this was what Sean hears in her head as she is deaf. It reflects that types of mood she is in and how she is feeling. Music plays a big role in films as it gives an audience a scene of what is happening and how the characters are feeling.
	In conclusion, this film gives us a perspective on how dedication can lead to many rewards. Hardworking, passionate, strong, and many other traits and presented in this film to inspire us to keep on moving forward and to make the impossible possible. If we apply these things into our lives, it can make us more successful and slowly become that person you have always wanted to be.







Works Cited
Mangold, James, director. Ford Vs Ferrari. 2019.
“Switched At Birth.” 2011.
Sanders, Matthew L. Becoming a Learner: Realizing the Opportunity of Education. Macmillan Learning Curriculum Solutions, 2018.
